# JS Conf Colombia is my favorite conference

The first time I came to JSConf Colombia was also my first time in Medellín,
in October of 2015. I had been spending some time in my home town of Bogotá when
I saw the tickets onsale. I was trying to go to every conference I could because
I had just started working as a javascript developer and wanted to learn
everything I could.

## I want to share with you why I liked it so much

That experience was so great, that I decided to make Medellín my home. Every
year I look forward JSConf Co. So much so that I turn down speaking
opportunities and fun trips to be here for it.

## A mission

I have a deep respect for the team behind JSConf Co. They have built a wonderful
conference not around personal interests, but around a mission.

It's impossible for me to say it better than Juan Pablo Buriticá and Julián
Duque did at [JSConf US
2018](https://medium.com/colombia-dev/the-butterfly-js-effect-2eeae7b32712). But
since the video for their hasn't been posted, I'll give it a shot.

Every year, JSConf Colombia provides scholarships to the conference, so that
members of the community can come learn and participate, even if they could not
otherwise afford it. They have written more about it [here](), but tldr; they
consider it a social responsibility as citizens of country with one of the
world's highest rates of inequality.

## World class content

I've learned about the [past and future of javascript]() from Brendan Eich, the
creator of the language himself. Thorsten Lorenz, a member of the Node.js Core
Team, showed us how to [profile and solve complex memory leaks]().

But also, if you're taking a day off work, you should get to laugh and have fun.

I definitely have. In 2015, I watched Raquel Velez give her [first talk in Spanish](),
with an excited and supportive audience cheering her on. In 2016, I watched Eva
Ferreira show off [how to make mind bending animations in CSS]().

The talks at JSConf Colombia are constantly the most thought provoking things I
learn all year, and they shape my daily work.

## Community

I have met some amazing friends because of JSConf Colombia. Friends that I see
regularly here in Medellín, and also friends that I've travelled as far as
Argentina and France to visit.

Every foreigner attendee I've talked to has had the same comment about the
locals they met at the conference. We're the friendliest group they've ever met
at a conference. All of them have fallen in love with Colombia and Medellín,
some of them even enough to move here.

The conference has always had a focus on diversity, so I've met lots of people
from all types of different backgrounds.

## Cultural experience

If you've never been to Colombia, this is a chance to see a unique side of our
culture. From eating local foods like [empanadas]() to learning about the
history of Medellín and it's transition from one of the most dangerous cities in
the world to one of its most innovative.

## Come next year!

I'm beyond excited for this year's conference, and I hope this post got you
excited to come check it out as well. You can also come to its sister
conferences, [NodeConf Colombia](http://colombia.nodeconf.com/) and [Scale Conf
Colombia](https://scaleconfco.com/), all equally as good. And if you do, [say
hi!](https://https://twitter.com/_juancaicedo)
